  APFS is a file system introduced by Apple to replace HFS+ and one its main differences is providing 64-bit compatibility. The APFS partition, which is defined in the GUID Partition Table, consists of a single container, which holds the superblock functionality and metadata for the partition space. This container has an Object Map, which is a B-Tree used for various object types, especially the volume. The container can have as many as 100 volumes, with each being a mountable filesystem, and therefore maintains its own object map. There are two specific objects that make up the filesystem - the RootFS Tree, where file metadata is stored, and the Extent Tree, which maps logical extents to physical blocks.
	The container has a Space Manager object as well that maintains the state of all its blocks and groups contiguous blocks into chunks. Finally, the container holds the Reaper object, whose responsibility it is to track the state of large objects so they can be safely deleted. A quick overview of the features implemented in APFS include a full 64-bit file system, volume management, encryption, fast directory sizing, sparse file support, atomic safe-save, file/directory cloning, copy-on-write, snapshots, defragmentation, etc. As evident by the feature list, APFS is clearly a modern file system equipped with countless features for efficient file management. 
	APFS was defined to support blocks ranging from 4k to 64k, and the minimum container size is 1MB. Blocks in APFS fall into three main categories - Unallocated, used by a file object, and used by APFS itself. Most blocks fit into the second category as file systems primarily exist to store data. Unallocated blocks are those that haven’t been used since the containers initial formatting, and blocks used by APFS itself store tons of metadata regarding inodes, and this extends with time as new objects are created. The blocks used by APFS contain exactly one APFS object, which are identified by a unique 64-bit OID. They are stored either in a physical (stored at fixed block addresses), virtual (may exist in multiple instances due to different generations of the same object), and ephemeral (similar to virtual but maintained in memory during filesystem mount) manner. The physical objects are the only ones that guarantee that the OID is the same as the block address. Object maps exist to provide this functionality to virtual objects, and use a B-tree to map OIDs to block numbers. The leaf nodes of this OMAP provide a mapping between the OID key and 64-bit block number. All APFS blocks start with a fixed 32 byte header. This header consists of the fletcher checksum (allows quick verification of block contents), Object ID (refers to object contained in block), transaction ID (denotes object version), blockType (type of object contained), flags (indicate storage type of object), and blockSubType (only used for B-Tree nodes). 
  The B-Trees used by APFS are actually B- Trees, which are a variant of B-Trees that restrict values to only leaf nodes. Therefore, non-leaf nodes only hold keys and identifiers of child nodes. B-Trees are crucial data structures for filesystems and are used for various data management needs. B-Tree nodes are of either type 2 (root nodes) or type 3 (non-root nodes). B-Trees naturally have one root node, but this can also act as a leaf node if it is the only node in the tree. It is crucial to differentiate between type 2 and 3 nodes as root nodes have a special trailer that contains metadata about the entire tree. As understanding of the contents of B-Tree nodes is crucial to understanding the tool, refer to the diagram (sourced from OS Internals Kernel Mode by Jonathan Levin) below to get an overview of the general structure.
